README.md, before:

![intro image](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/tutorials/ARVideoKit_prev_1.png)

An iOS Framework that enables developers to capture videos 📹, photos 🌄, Live Photos 🎇, and GIFs 🎆 with ARKit content.

In other words, you **NO LONGER** have to ~screen record~/~screenshot~ to capture videos 📹 and photos 🌄 of your awesome ARKit apps!


| Table of Contents  |  Description       |
| ------------------ |:------------------:|
| [Documentation](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki) | Describes the configuration options `ARVideoKit` offers |
| [Preview](#preview)                                        | Displays 2 GIF images captured using the supported [`gif`](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-gifforduration-durationtimeinterval-exportbool-_-finished-_-statusbool-_-gifpath-url-_-permissionstatusphauthorizationstatus-_-exportedbool---swiftvoid--nil) method in `ARVideoKit`|
| [Key Features](#key-features) | Lists the key features `ARVideoKit` offers     |
| [Compatibility](#compatibility) | Describes the `ARVideoKit` device and iOS compatibality |
| [Example Projects](#example-projects) | Explains how to run the example project provided in this repository |
| [Installation](#installation) | Describes the [Manual](#manual) option to install `ARVideoKit`   |
| [Implementation](#implementation) | Lists the [steps needed](#implementation) for Objective-C & Swift, [notes](#note), and [reference](#youre-all-set-) for more options  |
| [Publishing to the App Store](#publishing-to-the-app-store) | Describes the steps **required** before submitting an application using `ARVideoKit` to the App Store. |
|[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/en_US/i/btn/png/btn_donate_92x26.png)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=ahmedfbekhit@gmail.com&item_name=Support+ARVideoKit+Developer&item_number=ARVideoKit+Framework+Donations&amount=0%2e00&currency_code=USD) | [Donations](#donate) will support me to keep maintaining `ARVideoKit` ❤️|
| [Contributions](#contributions) | Describes how you can contribute to this project |
| [Apps using ARVideoKit](#apps-using-arvideokit) | A list of published applications using ARVideoKit |
| [License](#license) | Describes `ARVideoKit` license |
| [AppCoda Tutorial](https://www.appcoda.com/record-arkit-video/) | Check out a detailed tutorial about implementing `ARVideoKit` with SpriteKit ☺️ |

## Preview
|👾 [Initialized with SpriteKit](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#init-arspritekitarskview)👇|🚀 [Initialized with SceneKit](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#init-arscenekitarscnview) 👇|
|--------------|--------------|
| ![SpriteKit Preview](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/SK_PREV.gif) | ![SceneKit Preview](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/SCN_PREVIEW.gif)|
 
## Key Features
✅ Capture [Photos](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-photo---uiimage) from [`ARSCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arscnview), [`ARSKView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arskview), and [`SCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/scenekit/scnview)

✅ Capture [Live Photos](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-livephotoexportbool-_-finished-_-statusbool-_-livephotophlivephotoplus-_-permissionstatusphauthorizationstatus-_-exportedbool---swiftvoid--nil) & [GIFs](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-gifforduration-durationtimeinterval-exportbool-_-finished-_-statusbool-_-gifpath-url-_-permissionstatusphauthorizationstatus-_-exportedbool---swiftvoid--nil) from [`ARSCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arscnview), [`ARSKView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arskview), and [`SCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/scenekit/scnview)

✅ [Record](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-record) Videos from [`ARSCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arscnview), [`ARSKView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arskview), and [`SCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/scenekit/scnview)

✅ [Pause/Resume](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-pause) video

✅ Allow device's Music playing in the [background while recording a video](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#var-enablemixwithothersbool)

✅ [Returns](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#var-onlyrenderwhilerecordingbool) rendered and raw buffers in a [protocol](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#var-renderarrenderardelegate) [method](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RenderARDelegate#func-framedidrender-buffercvpixelbuffer-with-timecmtime-using-rawbuffercvpixelbuffer) for additional Image & Video processing
## Compatibility
`ARVideoKit` is compatible on iOS devices that support both [`ARKit`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit) and [`Metal`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal). Check Apple's [iOS Device Compatibility Reference](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/DeviceInformation/Reference/iOSDeviceCompatibility/DeviceCompatibilityMatrix/DeviceCompatibilityMatrix.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40013599-CH17-SW1) for more information.

`ARVideoKit` requires:
- iOS 11
- Swift 3.2 or higher

## Example Projects
To try the example project, simply clone this repository and open the `Examples` folder to choose between the Objective-C and Swift project files.

## Installation
### Manual
Drag the `ARVideoKit.framework` file as an embedded binary of your project targets. `ARVideoKit.framework` can be found in the `/Framework Build/` folder of this repository.
![Tutorial](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/arvideokit_install_new.gif)

Or you may drag `ARVideoKit.xcodeproj` into your project and click the **+** button in the embedded binaries section of your project's target.
![example embed framework](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/embeddedBinary.png)
## Implementation
### Swift
[Click here to check the Swift implementation steps.](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/tree/master/Examples/Swift)
### Objective-C
[Click here to check the Objective-C implementation steps.](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/tree/master/Examples/Objective-C)

### NOTE
Make sure you add the usage description of the `camera`, `microphone`, and `photo library` in the app's `Info.plist`.
```
<key>NSCameraUsageDescription</key>
<string>AR Camera</string>
<key>NSPhotoLibraryAddUsageDescription</key>
<string>Export AR Media</string>
<key>NSPhotoLibraryUsageDescription</key>
<string>Export AR Media</string>
<key>NSMicrophoneUsageDescription</key>
<string>Audiovisual Recording</string>
```
![Info Plist Screenshot](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/infoPlistUsage.png)

### You're all set. 🤓
Check [`RecordAR`](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR) documentation for more options!

## Publishing to the App Store
Before publishing to the App Store make sure to add the [ARVideoKit License](#license) to your app licences list.

Additionally, if you are using the binary build from `Framework Build` or the latest release, you MUST **strip out the simulator architectures** from the framework before pushing an application to the App Store.

To do so, follow those steps:

1. Install Carthage
> Download `Carthage.pkg` [from here](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/releases)

> Or install with Homebrew using this command `brew install carthage` 
2. Go to your project target's `Build Phase`
<img width="684" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 21 44 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32813978-e70ae5a0-c97a-11e7-9d19-3ef434e4c4f1.png">

3. Add a new `Run Script Phase`
<img width="686" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 22 14 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32814003-0ab4cffc-c97b-11e7-97d0-cf3143afec6d.png">

4. Add the following command to the `Run Script Phase`
```
/usr/local/bin/carthage copy-frameworks
```
<img width="676" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 30 12 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32814033-3302bece-c97b-11e7-867c-e8707ac7dd6b.png">

5. Finally, add `ARVideoKit.framework` file path as an `Input File`. In my case, I have it in a folder named `Frameworks` inside my project folder
<img width="672" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 41 06 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32814258-327bd048-c97c-11e7-8148-8d606d545214.png">

## Donate
Donations will support me to keep maintining **ARVideoKit Framework** ❤️

[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/en_US/i/btn/png/btn_donate_92x26.png)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=ahmedfbekhit@gmail.com&item_name=Support+ARVideoKit+Developer&item_number=ARVideoKit+Framework+Donations&amount=0%2e00&currency_code=USD)

## Contributions
If you have an idea for a new **ARVideoKit** feature/functionality and want to add it to this repository, feel free to fork the project and create a pull request!

Also, feel free to create an issue if you have any suggestions or need any help ☺️

## Apps using ARVideoKit
| App  |  Description   |
| ------------------ |:------------------:|
| [Our SolAR](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1267675913) | An app that allows you to see our Solar System anywhere at all! |

_Feel free to add your application to this list!_
## License
Copyright 2017 Ahmed Fathi Bekhit, www.ahmedbekhit.com, me@ahmedbekhit.com

`ARVideoKit` is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Updating release instructions in README.md

README.md, after:

![intro image](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/tutorials/ARVideoKit_prev_1.png)

An iOS Framework that enables developers to capture videos 📹, photos 🌄, Live Photos 🎇, and GIFs 🎆 with ARKit content.

In other words, you **NO LONGER** have to ~screen record~/~screenshot~ to capture videos 📹 and photos 🌄 of your awesome ARKit apps!


| Table of Contents  |  Description       |
| ------------------ |:------------------:|
| [Documentation](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki) | Describes the configuration options `ARVideoKit` offers |
| [Preview](#preview)                                        | Displays 2 GIF images captured using the supported [`gif`](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-gifforduration-durationtimeinterval-exportbool-_-finished-_-statusbool-_-gifpath-url-_-permissionstatusphauthorizationstatus-_-exportedbool---swiftvoid--nil) method in `ARVideoKit`|
| [Key Features](#key-features) | Lists the key features `ARVideoKit` offers     |
| [Compatibility](#compatibility) | Describes the `ARVideoKit` device and iOS compatibality |
| [Example Projects](#example-projects) | Explains how to run the example project provided in this repository |
| [Installation](#installation) | Describes the [Manual](#manual) option to install `ARVideoKit`   |
| [Implementation](#implementation) | Lists the [steps needed](#implementation) for Objective-C & Swift, [notes](#note), and [reference](#youre-all-set-) for more options  |
| [Publishing to the App Store](#publishing-to-the-app-store) | Describes the steps **required** before submitting an application using `ARVideoKit` to the App Store. |
|[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/en_US/i/btn/png/btn_donate_92x26.png)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=ahmedfbekhit@gmail.com&item_name=Support+ARVideoKit+Developer&item_number=ARVideoKit+Framework+Donations&amount=0%2e00&currency_code=USD) | [Donations](#donate) will support me to keep maintaining `ARVideoKit` ❤️|
| [Contributions](#contributions) | Describes how you can contribute to this project |
| [Apps using ARVideoKit](#apps-using-arvideokit) | A list of published applications using ARVideoKit |
| [License](#license) | Describes `ARVideoKit` license |
| [AppCoda Tutorial](https://www.appcoda.com/record-arkit-video/) | Check out a detailed tutorial about implementing `ARVideoKit` with SpriteKit ☺️ |

## Preview
|👾 [Initialized with SpriteKit](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#init-arspritekitarskview)👇|🚀 [Initialized with SceneKit](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#init-arscenekitarscnview) 👇|
|--------------|--------------|
| ![SpriteKit Preview](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/SK_PREV.gif) | ![SceneKit Preview](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/SCN_PREVIEW.gif)|
 
## Key Features
✅ Capture [Photos](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-photo---uiimage) from [`ARSCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arscnview), [`ARSKView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arskview), and [`SCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/scenekit/scnview)

✅ Capture [Live Photos](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-livephotoexportbool-_-finished-_-statusbool-_-livephotophlivephotoplus-_-permissionstatusphauthorizationstatus-_-exportedbool---swiftvoid--nil) & [GIFs](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-gifforduration-durationtimeinterval-exportbool-_-finished-_-statusbool-_-gifpath-url-_-permissionstatusphauthorizationstatus-_-exportedbool---swiftvoid--nil) from [`ARSCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arscnview), [`ARSKView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arskview), and [`SCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/scenekit/scnview)

✅ [Record](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-record) Videos from [`ARSCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arscnview), [`ARSKView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit/arskview), and [`SCNView`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/scenekit/scnview)

✅ [Pause/Resume](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#func-pause) video

✅ Allow device's Music playing in the [background while recording a video](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#var-enablemixwithothersbool)

✅ [Returns](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#var-onlyrenderwhilerecordingbool) rendered and raw buffers in a [protocol](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR#var-renderarrenderardelegate) [method](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RenderARDelegate#func-framedidrender-buffercvpixelbuffer-with-timecmtime-using-rawbuffercvpixelbuffer) for additional Image & Video processing
## Compatibility
`ARVideoKit` is compatible on iOS devices that support both [`ARKit`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/arkit) and [`Metal`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/metal). Check Apple's [iOS Device Compatibility Reference](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/DeviceInformation/Reference/iOSDeviceCompatibility/DeviceCompatibilityMatrix/DeviceCompatibilityMatrix.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40013599-CH17-SW1) for more information.

`ARVideoKit` requires:
- iOS 11
- Swift 3.2 or higher

## Example Projects
To try the example project, simply clone this repository and open the `Examples` folder to choose between the Objective-C and Swift project files.

## Installation
### Manual
Drag the `ARVideoKit.framework` file as an embedded binary of your project targets. `ARVideoKit.framework` can be found in the `/Framework Build/` folder of this repository.
![Tutorial](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/arvideokit_install_new.gif)

Or you may drag `ARVideoKit.xcodeproj` into your project and click the **+** button in the embedded binaries section of your project's target.
![example embed framework](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/embeddedBinary.png)
## Implementation
### Swift
[Click here to check the Swift implementation steps.](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/tree/master/Examples/Swift)
### Objective-C
[Click here to check the Objective-C implementation steps.](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/tree/master/Examples/Objective-C)

### NOTE
Make sure you add the usage description of the `camera`, `microphone`, and `photo library` in the app's `Info.plist`.
```
<key>NSCameraUsageDescription</key>
<string>AR Camera</string>
<key>NSPhotoLibraryAddUsageDescription</key>
<string>Export AR Media</string>
<key>NSPhotoLibraryUsageDescription</key>
<string>Export AR Media</string>
<key>NSMicrophoneUsageDescription</key>
<string>Audiovisual Recording</string>
```
![Info Plist Screenshot](http://www.ahmedbekhit.com/infoPlistUsage.png)

### You're all set. 🤓
Check [`RecordAR`](https://github.com/AFathi/ARVideoKit/wiki/RecordAR) documentation for more options!

## Publishing to the App Store
Before publishing to the App Store make sure to add the [ARVideoKit License](#license) to your app licences list.

1. Build ARVideoKit for release
> Open ARVideoKit.xcodeproj
> Select ARVideoKitRelease scheme with Generic iOS Device
> Build the project (cmd + B)
> Right click on Products/ARVideoKit.framework -> Show in finder
> Copy and replace ARVideoKit.framework in your project 

Additionally, if you are using the binary build from `Framework Build` or the latest release, you MUST **strip out the simulator architectures** from the framework before pushing an application to the App Store.

To do so, follow those steps:

2. Install Carthage
> Download `Carthage.pkg` [from here](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/releases)

> Or install with Homebrew using this command `brew install carthage` 
3. Go to your project target's `Build Phase`
<img width="684" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 21 44 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32813978-e70ae5a0-c97a-11e7-9d19-3ef434e4c4f1.png">

4. Add a new `Run Script Phase`
<img width="686" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 22 14 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32814003-0ab4cffc-c97b-11e7-97d0-cf3143afec6d.png">

5. Add the following command to the `Run Script Phase`
```
/usr/local/bin/carthage copy-frameworks
```
<img width="676" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 30 12 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32814033-3302bece-c97b-11e7-867c-e8707ac7dd6b.png">

6. Finally, add `ARVideoKit.framework` file path as an `Input File`. In my case, I have it in a folder named `Frameworks` inside my project folder
<img width="672" alt="screen shot 2017-11-14 at 8 41 06 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4106695/32814258-327bd048-c97c-11e7-8148-8d606d545214.png">

## Donate
Donations will support me to keep maintining **ARVideoKit Framework** ❤️

[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/webstatic/en_US/i/btn/png/btn_donate_92x26.png)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=ahmedfbekhit@gmail.com&item_name=Support+ARVideoKit+Developer&item_number=ARVideoKit+Framework+Donations&amount=0%2e00&currency_code=USD)

## Contributions
If you have an idea for a new **ARVideoKit** feature/functionality and want to add it to this repository, feel free to fork the project and create a pull request!

Also, feel free to create an issue if you have any suggestions or need any help ☺️

## Apps using ARVideoKit
| App  |  Description   |
| ------------------ |:------------------:|
| [Our SolAR](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1267675913) | An app that allows you to see our Solar System anywhere at all! |

_Feel free to add your application to this list!_
## License
Copyright 2017 Ahmed Fathi Bekhit, www.ahmedbekhit.com, me@ahmedbekhit.com

`ARVideoKit` is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
